Platform | Cara For Dallas

top of page
DONATE
SUBSCRIBE
Home
Platform
About
More
Use tab to navigate through the menu items.
my platform
dallas city council
fight skyrocketing property taxes
Taxpayers want a good return on their tax investment. Cara believes we must continue eliminating waste, duplication, and end pet projects so the City can focus on doing the basics well. Cara continues to advocate for lower property tax rates, increased senior exemptions based on cost of living index, and efficient use of tax dollars in the city budget.
POLICY AND GOVERNANCE
Policy matters and Cara does her homework to help shape policy and support ordinances, plans, and policies that will improve the city. Following the IT department’s loss of DPD data, Cara initiated the monthly Technology Accountability Report to provide better governance and transparency of city technology. Cara voted for the Ethics ordinance, CECAP, Vision Zero resolution and plan, racial equity resolution, restrictions on hours of operation for sexually-oriented business, and for additional homeless funding. Cara has pushed back against plans that provide 75-year tax abatements to developers, against wasteful spending on boondoggle projects like rebuilding the convention center, and spending that drains the city’s reserve accounts for short-term gains.
PANHANDLING AND HOMELESSNESS
improve public safety
Cara believes public safety is a city’s primary responsibility and was recognized by the Dallas Police Association as the Law Enforcement Advocate of the Year in 2021. Cara has supported pay increases for all public safety officers, leading to a higher retention rate, as well as enhanced police and paramedic training, funding of needed gear, fleet, specialized units, and equipment. Through words, votes, ride-alongs, and participation in graduation and promotion ceremonies, Cara has shown her dedication to public safety.

​

Cara led the creation of a new recruiting and retention bonus program for police. Cara led the charge to hire more police officers in Dallas.

​

DPD should continue to focus on recruiting and retention efforts and sensible efficiencies to allow officers to concentrate on activities that most impact crime. Our goal should be for Dallas to become the safest large city in America. Having police, fire, and EMS services available to respond to calls in a timely manner, all over the city, is our urgent priority. Cara’s work to secure the data necessary to show the need for a faster life-saving response in Far North Dallas led to a second, full-time ambulance at Fire Station #13 (Frankford & Hillcrest). Cara has been endorsed by the Dallas Police Association, Dallas Retired Police Association, and National Latino Law Enforcement Organization (NLLEO) - Greater Dallas Chapter.
IMPROVE INFRASTRUCTURE
Residents deserve to have their investment in infrastructure maintained and roads that don’t damage their vehicles. In the decade before Cara was elected, the city underinvested in streets, traffic signals, and city-owned buildings. There is a backlog of over $17 billion dollars in deferred infrastructure maintenance and more than half of the traffic signals in Dallas have out-lived their useful life by more than twice their years. Cara has been an outspoken advocate for infrastructure investment, resulting in fully funding street maintenance in 2020 and every year since, and a staff plan presented to address traffic signals and sidewalks. Cara advocates for sufficient funding in the annual budget to maintain our roads and replace traffic signals on an appropriate schedule. In District 12, Cara has been able to secure funding for the installation of 9 new traffic signals and a pilot program on Frankford Road that will connect 7 new traffic signals with the latest technology to evaluate the impact on connectivity, safety, and traffic.
Homelessness is growing in Dallas and across the nation. Every part of Dallas is struggling with homeless encampments. The city has responded by working to increase the number of beds available for people experiencing homelessness. With every city council district stepping up to host homeless services, a family homeless shelter was established in District 12 with the purchase of a hotel. Cara’s leadership in this area has been documented in multiple news articles, at city council meetings, and panel discussions. Cara was invited to present a session with Family Gateway CEO Ellen Magnus at the Texas Homeless Network conference to share the best practices of incorporating a homeless shelter in a fully developed area without community opposition. The Family Gateway North facility is the first social service provider in District 12. Since the facility opened, prostitution has decreased, no nearby residents have complained of issues, and hundreds of homeless families have made progress to regain their stability and independent housing. Cara has a long history of working with homeless populations both professionally and as a volunteer. She believes there should be sufficient emergency shelter beds to allow anyone who needs shelter to find a safe place to sleep. She does not believe homeless encampments should be tolerated and immediately removed with shelter services offered. The long-term solution to homelessness must incorporate robust mental health services, substance abuse recovery, and affordable housing. Cara is an advocate for supportive housing that provides on-site services to disabled individuals, as well as single-room occupancy housing and shared housing as affordable means to provide stable housing to the lowest-income residents of Dallas. Cara advocated for a new Master Leasing program to provide housing for voucher holders who can’t find a place to rent. Residents are strongly encouraged to NOT give money to panhandlers, and instead direct charitable efforts to homeless non-profits that provide the assistance needed by people experiencing hardships.

​

Cara believes new and innovative services are needed for sheltering people who refuse emergency shelters and the City must enforce HB1925 prohibiting camping on public land.
POLITICAL ADVERTISEMENT PAID FOR BY CARA MENDELSOHN CAMPAIGN
bottom of page