THE ISSUES | Jeff Kitner Dallas

top of page
Early Voting: May 27-June 3 | Election Day: June 7
HOME
ABOUT JEFF
ENDORSEMENTS
THE ISSUES
GET IN TOUCH
GO VOTE
More
Use tab to navigate through the menu items.
Services
ISSUES THAT MATTER
With an extensive service record, Jeff is well equipped to collaborate with government

agencies, community partners and neighbors to deliver results for District 11 residents.
Public Safety
All residents deserve to feel safe and secure in their homes, neighborhoods, and throughout Dallas. Jeff will fight to increase the number of police officers on the force and will collaborate with the Dallas Police Department to ensure that officers have the resources they need to continue to reduce violent crime, improve 911 response times, and recruit top talent to our force. Public Safety is the City’s largest investment, and our officers deserve competitive pay, a secure pension plan, high-quality training facilities, and strong recruits.
Panhandling & Homelessness
Homelessness and panhandling impact all residents in our community, whether they are experiencing homelessness or not. Panhandling continues to be a pervasive issue, and Jeff is prepared to work with city staff to address this issue head on. Jeff believes it is the city’s responsibility to quickly and efficiently respond to homeless encampments in our public spaces to ensure community safety, while addressing the residents impacted by homelessness with compassion and opportunities to obtain emergency shelter and wraparound services.
Strong Neighborhoods
Neighbors understand the needs of their community best. Jeff will ensure that neighborhood voices are heard in projects that will impact their quality of life, and will partner with the community to review any proposed projects. As a member of the Park and Recreation Board, Jeff worked with neighborhoods and parks friends groups to champion quality-of-life projects and improvements based on the needs of the community.
Quality Infrastructure
Dallas has over $2 billion dollars in needed infrastructure repairs for our streets and alleys, with an additional $2 billion needed for sidewalk repair. Infrastructure is a key area of investment and oversight for the city. Jeff will work closely with city leaders to ensure that your tax dollars are put to good use to make meaningful improvements on the infrastructure of District 11 and the city as a whole.
Fiscal Responsibility and Good Governance
The city operates with your tax dollars and that is a serious responsibility. Jeff believes our tax dollars should be spent efficiently and on core city functions like public safety, infrastructure, parks, and libraries. He is committed to improving service delivery for residents and ensuring that the city is focusing its time and resources on core services rather than issues outside of the scope of city government.
Quality of Life
Not only should Dallas be a safe place to live, but it must also have excellent public amenities that encourage people to stay here for life. As a long-time champion for the “Ministry of Happiness” (parks, arts, and libraries), Jeff will continue to advocate for high-quality public spaces that make Dallas the world-class city it is. Jeff has worked hard to ensure that everyone has access to safe and well-maintained parks and trails through his service on the Park Board. As a former board member and Advocacy Co-Chair of the Friends of the Dallas Public Library, he has fought to ensure that our libraries have the funding and resources they need to serve all of our residents.
Donate Now

Overview

The City of Dallas is facing a tough budget season ahead. The Dallas Morning News reported that we are anticipating a $6.5 million budget shortfall, which could grow before the end of the fiscal year. To tackle tough issues like this, you need a councilmember who has significant knowledge of City Hall and is prepared to make tough choices.

What does good governance mean to Jeff?

The city operates with our tax dollars, and that is a serious responsibility. Our tax dollars should be spent efficiently and on core city functions, including public safety, infrastructure, parks, and libraries. I am committed to improving service delivery for residents and ensuring that the city is focusing its time and resources on core services rather than issues outside of the scope of city government. I believe that a councilmember's office should be accessible to their constituents and serve as a resource to help address municipal issues. I will offer office hours at coffee shops and restaurants throughout the district to make interaction with City Hall easier for residents.

What are some creative ways the city could save money?

I have already put cost-saving measures for the City into action. I led the efforts of the Better Elections Dallas coalition, along with David de la Fuente, Jeff Mankoff, the League of Women Voters of Dallas, and other civic and business organization partners, to include a City Charter Amendment to move our local elections to November of odd-numbered years. This amendment will benefit the city by increasing voter turnout, reducing voter fatigue, and saving Dallas residents over $400,000. This week, it passed the State House Elections Committee unanimously, and we are hopeful the Governor will sign it into law this session. While this is just one example, I would look for similar cost-saving efforts to create more streamlined processes for a more efficient, cost-effective government.

What is Jeff’s stance on property taxes?

I do not support raising property taxes and would like to see continued reductions of property taxes. Our property taxes should not be the reason people cannot live in Dallas or remain in their homes. We need to shore up our police and fire pensions, and cannot keep looking to residential property taxes to get us out of the problem and do right by our first responders. Property taxes are already increasing year after year, and that trend must be slowed down. To be fiscally responsible, the City needs to generate tax revenue from other sources. Growing local businesses, adding more housing near public transit and other public spaces, and developing blighted spaces like the old Valley View Mall are some possible solutions. Another is continuing to work with our colleagues in southern Dallas to identify areas for growth.

What is Jeff’s position on City Bond Elections?

The city has many needs, including capital improvements and basic operating costs, and bond elections have been used as a means to address both. Debt from bonds is a significant component of our city budget, and I believe we should pay for infrastructure maintenance primarily out of the operating budget instead. My perspective is that we shift more of our operating costs out of bond elections and instead prioritize using bond dollars on transformational projects, such as the proposed state-of-the-art police training facility, signature and libraries, and world-class arts facilities.

Overview

Dallas has the capacity to be a world-class city. We can realize our full potential by ensuring our city is a wonderful place to live, work, and raise a family. A core responsibility for councilmembers is to bring that vision to life through economic development initiatives. I am committed to improving the city’s current levels of service while lowering our property taxes, which have skyrocketed over the last several years. The best way to reduce our reliance on single-family property taxes is smart development that increases our revenue without harming established neighborhoods.

What was Jeff's stance on the Pepper Square development?

I listened carefully to neighbors on all sides of the issue before it ever came before the City Council. There was broad agreement that blight and decline are not acceptable. The space must be active 24/7 to reduce crime and homeless camping. That’s why I supported mixing in some residential with the commercial use, but I urged the current councilmember to push for much lower density than what was ultimately approved. Council decisions are meant to be well-informed, well-reasoned, and definitive. There are rare cases when they may need to be challenged in the courts. There is currently a lawsuit preventing Pepper Square redevelopment from moving forward. If it results in renegotiation, I will get the local neighborhoods involved on day one. I will stay engaged in the process, but my personal opinions will not drive the end result for this or any other development.I believe we will be able to find a compromise that benefits both the developer and the community.

How will Jeff approach reinvestment in the former Valley View Mall area and the International District?

This is an incredible opportunity to breathe new life into North Dallas, and it should have happened long ago. The goal is to create a vibrant space where families can live, work, shop, and relax, all in one place. To get this project moving, we can learn from successes like Preston Hollow Village and Legacy West, which just sold for $785 million. There have been astonishing delays at Valley View, but we will commit to a deep collaboration with a new developer to help us make meaningful and long overdue progress. While serving on the Parks and Recreation board, I helped secure purchase of land towards a new signature International Commons Park. This green space will fill a major need for safe park space where kids can play and families can gather together, similar to the success we’ve seen at Hillcrest Village Green, but on a much larger scale. The park is expected to bring in businesses, create jobs, and raise property values—good news for homeowners and the local economy. To succeed, we must to stay connected and focused. That means developers, city leaders, and the entire community. As soon as new ownership of the old mall site is confirmed, we’ll negotiate a new funding plan to keep the project on track. Smart tax incentives tied to specific goals can encourage builders to stay on schedule and keep costs in check. And I want to be clear: I’m 100% against any casino at Valley View, even in the unlikely scenario where gambling becomes legal in Texas. The City Council has no power to allow a casino—any claims otherwise are simply not true. Legalization of gambling is exclusively a decision for the Texas State Legislature.

What does Jeff think about the proposed HEB?

I am committed to bringing HEB to North Dallas - but only in the right location. I have concerns about the currently proposed location, because of problems with traffic, flooding, access, and the impact on nearby neighbors. Before any rezoning would ever be considered, I would work closely with HEB to identify a more optimal location for the grocery chain. HEB has not filed for rezoning to date.

How would you reform Dallas’ parking code? Do you support eliminating parking minimums?

On May 14, Dallas City Council passed a compromise parking reform by a 14-1 margin. I would have voted in favor of this plan as well. I do not support a one-size-fits-all approach to parking reform. Different approaches to parking are appropriate for different parts of town, based on the unique interests of each area, and that is exactly the plan the council passed. In the dense areas near Downtown and Uptown, I would support a reduction of parking minimums to encourage more pedestrian and bicycle traffic. That approach would not be appropriate in less dense areas of the city, including most of District 11. Especially in and around single-family neighborhoods, parking minimums are essential to prevent overflow, street congestion, and the safety problems that would result.

Do you have any lingering concerns regarding the ForwardDallas 2.0 comprehensive land use plan update?

ForwardDallas 2.0 is just a guide, not a binding document. It is meant to inform decisions of the City Planning Commission and the City Council when considering new zoning cases, but it does not outweigh other factors. City staff research and input from residents are essential and should always be strongly considered before any zoning changes are made. I have no problem with ForwardDallas 2.0 as a planning tool. It is never meant to override other factors.

WHERE JEFF STANDS
Jeff Kitner for Dallas City Council District 11
&copy;2025 Political Advertisement paid for by Jeff Kitner for Dallas Campaign, Sam Coats, Treasurer
bottom of page